hey everybody its Robert here so Sigma 3
survival school we're going to do
another video we did a video earlier on
basically how to split up a leg if you
actually do get thrown into a situation
where someone's got a splint and they
can't walk out you're going to have to
have someone there to help carry them
out either a search-and-rescue team or
if you've got buddies with you on a
backpacking outing or something like
that we're going to show you how to
throw together a improvised litter with
nothing more than a tarp and a couple of
sticks and it's it's something that's
extremely effective and can be done in a
matter of minutes so we're gonna whip
this together real quick and and show
you this cool little trick alright so
the first thing that you're gonna do and
throw in an improvised litter together
is to take your tarp you want to lay it
out flat and you want to cut you a
couple poles you know a couple of trees
you want to make sure that it's
something that's pretty strong and you
just roll this up this doesn't require
any rope
you just roll it up like a burrito
and depending on how large the person is
you're carrying you will obviously want
to be mindful about the width that
you're working with this ought to be
perfect we're gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna
jump in this here in a second and we're
going to show you how well this carry so
I'm about six-one about 205 pounds and
it easily carries with no rope or any
kind of attachments all right so once
you roll this up you want to make sure
that you roll up the litter or the tarp
real tight on both sides and it really
works best in my opinion especially for
heavier people you know if you've got a
lightweight person friction will keep
this in place completely but if you
don't have it friction isn't working you
want to make sure that the person's arms
are secured around the outside so that
it doesn't unravel and this is a real
quick impromptu way you know if you
don't have to carry somebody just
extremely long distances but you can get
them out of the woods with a broken leg
or something like that all right so
that's how you throw it together an
improvised litter with nothing but two
logs and a tarp and basically what we're
going to do now is we're going to
transition into a second part of the
series how to show you how to throw
together a little bit more stable
version for someone that you've got to
carry out over longer distances with a
little bit of rope and lashing to sticks
together if you like what we're doing
you know please help support us by
subscribing and make sure that you watch
this next video on improvised litter
making coming up next thanks